---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

# [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html)

  There are several ways to solve a problem either small or large. In the article [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html), Raymond explores the concept of how to solve a problem he summizes that there are two methods to solving an issue. You can have a few people who are experts to tackle an area of expertise and slowly build this masterful cathedral. The other option is to attack your problem with a bazaar method. This allows for people of all levels and skill sets to offer an approach to finding solution.The following three concept intrigued me:

1. "Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow." (Fred Brooks, The Mythical Man-Month, Chapter 11)
2. "Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone.
3. "The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better." & ||  "When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor."
  
  These three/four concepts from this reading resonates with me the most. I see it as a workflow .
 Step 1: work really hard and develop this to your best potential and then plan to throw it out. 
 Step 2: have enough people look at it this allows for a lot of solution to happen and happen often. 
 Step 3: is a connection I made with two concepts, I see them as conditionals . If we are to continue to maintain a project the Idea of recognizing good ideas from all aspects including the people who may be using such creation is highly favored . But if the we no longer feel for what you have created we have the responsibilities to pass the care of the project on to someone who will.
 
 # Project Update
 I decided to work on the [create-react -app](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) . The project is focused on the template that you first encounter after you install the development environment - npm install . Afterwards you are to type the command npm, it is there that the templates exist. I decide on this project because of my familiarity with react . I familiar with this project because of the numerous issues I encountered throughout. I hope that through reading and working on some issues I can have a much better understand of my previous mistakes. The issue are plentiful and very specific. I’m still in search on a tackleable issue.

# Weekly summary
I browsed through issues on the create react app repository to get a grasped of the skills I need to improve to tackle the issues . I also made a batch of contribution to openstreetmap. I found it very exciting and quite easy to maneuver. I learned a lot about the documentation and how to document properly on openstreetmap.

