
It is time to start searching for projects. The above readings will help guide you in what to look for in a project.
I will provide suggestions for where and how to look. In this week's blog, write about which projects you looked at, why you rejected them, which are still possible, and which look good to you. Treat your blog like a diary this week. Also comment on the talk by Karen Sandler.


I looked into a few projects that I am familiar with and use often. I then  weighed the upside  and downside of each project to get closer to the projects I'd like to contribute to. The projects that I looked at included [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs.org/issues), [facebook/react](https://github.com/facebook/react/issues) and  [material-ui](https://github.com/mui-org).I narrowed it down to these projects because the repositories  are all hosted on github which makes for a familiar environment to work with.The first project I looked at was the node.js project.
The upside to working in the node.js repository is the plethora of issues to work with. It ranges from bringing attention to a text document that doesnt behave as it should to making  packages easier for linux. The dowside to node.js repository has alot of issues that have to with API's and I have very limited experience using APIs.Next I looked at the facebook/react project. 
The upside to working with  the facebook/react is that I've created two react apps and a react native app so I'm familiar with that library.The downside  although  I'm familiar with react is my knowledge of Javascript is not as strong and the APIs seem just as intimidating. Lastly I looked at the material-ui project. This intrigued me because it was unfamiliar but related to the react library.The upside I feel is that if I can get more familiar with the REACT library I use my knowledge towards the above two projects.The downside is the amount of knowledge I have to garner but the pay will be great because I can contribute to other projects.

I unfortunately missed Karen Sandler appearance but some of my classmates filled me in on the jist of her work and her what she does. I was informed that she spoked mainly about licensing and how she goes after those breaking open source licensing agreements.I had hoped to ask her question about her biggest dissapointment with the legal battles that she faces. 






# Weekly Summary 
1. Had a guest speaker Karen Sandler talk about licensing
2. Spoke about IRC
3. Section 5 of GitHub's How To Contribute: How To Submit A Contribution
4. Project evaluation activity
5. Started searching for projects to which you would like to contribute.
6. Finally had  made a contribution to openstreetmap  super exicted :confetti_ball::confetti_ball::confetti_ball::reminder_ribbon::tada::tada:

