---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

 **What types of contributions do you think are suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project?**
 
 There are many ways to contribute to open source projects. Some contributions involve coding while others do not. Contributing is something very new to me, so I am  hesistant to mess with someone else's code.I think the best way to ease my hesistaton is to think of messing with the code as my contribution. Nonetheless I think a slow start would work best for me. As far as my contributiions are concerned,  my goal is to aid in writing good documentation overall. This will include reading through the documentation that already exist, perhaps following examples and making corrections. Additionally, with all kinds of interesting projects in the works, I could add a glossary of technical terms to the projects.
 
 
 **What types of projects interest you and how do you see your relationship to them?**
 Projects that interest me include those I  currently utilize everyday. I'm interested in exploring some of the mozilla projects more specially the add-ons project.The add-ons project seems like the project that allows for creativity in the contributions/suggestions you can make to the code.I really like how organized the project is and the map provided to show you where the project has been and what direction its heading toward. I can optimize code for a web browser add on or contribute an add-on  feature for others to contribute/edit/optimize. Having an everyday connection to the opensource projects I contribute to will allow me to make more useful suggestion in improve the use of the project.
