---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---
This is the last blog post that I will write for this class. This is a chance to reflect on what I did. Go back to my first two blog posts.

# BEFORE

 ### Blog 1
 <p> I decided to enroll in this class because of the community aspect that Open source software development fosters. I  recently finished a summer bootcamp and I was excited to build on the tools and lessons I gained during my time there.I am  fairly new to open source software development.</p>

      Some of the open source software that I have used include:

       Ubuntu
       WordPress
       Python
  <P>This course will allow us to learn to communicate and contribute our perspective to the world. My hope is that with the activities and lessons we learn the world can become less intimidating with regard to information whether its how to obtain said information or how to use said information. My goal is to efficiently contribute to open source projects on a global level.</p>   
  
  ### Blog 2
  <p>What types of contributions do you think are suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project?

There are many ways to contribute to open source projects. Some contributions involve coding while others do not. Contributing is something very new to me, so I am hesitant to mess with someone else's code.I think the best way to ease my hesitation is to think of messing with the code as my contribution.<br>
Nonetheless I think a slow start would work best for me. As far as my contributions are concerned, my goal is to aid in writing good documentation overall. This will include reading through the documentation that already exist, perhaps following examples and making corrections. Additionally, with all kinds of interesting projects in the works, I could add a glossary of technical terms to the projects.</p>

 <p> What types of projects interest you and how do you see your relationship to them? Projects that interest me include those I currently utilize everyday. I'm interested in exploring some of the mozilla projects more specially the add-ons project.The add-ons project seems like the project that allows for creativity in the contributions/suggestions you can make to the code.<br>I really like how organized the project is and the map provided to show you where the project has been and what direction its heading toward. I can optimize code for a web browser add on or contribute an add-on feature for others to contribute/edit/optimize. Having an everyday connection to the opensource projects I contribute to will allow me to make more useful suggestion in improve the use of the project.</p>



# AFTER
My open source journey has been enlightening , challenging and rewarding. Through some highs and lows I've learned that patience and asking for help are extremely crucial throughout my open source journey .At beginning of the semester I had written ()to you that I had decided to take the this course because of the welcomeness I heard about the open source community . I thought documentation would be my first contribution.

I think one turning point in the class for me was , the presentation our professor gave on HFOSS .
I was really interested in the humanitarian opensource projects the presentation we had in class inspired me to want to work in an issue the has a great societal impact.

The course met my expectations it helped me overcome the hesitation to contribute . It helped me understand how to choose which projects to contribute to and how to ask for feedback on my work . However much I stumbles I am thankful the lessons that I learned

I didn't expect it to take me so long to find an issue to work on , but once my pull request was merged I felt accomplished. 
All in all I appreciate how this class to taught me to contribute and my reinforced interest in open source.
